here is the plot!

so the mechanics, as you know, revolve around HOW YOU FEEL and the time cycle

the time cycle is this: DAYTIME, DUSK, NIGHTTIME, DREAM
everytime you NAP, the cycle progresses
each time you AWAKEN, the world is put into a certain state based on the cycle state
its RANDOM but makes sense for that time fo day
and DREAM of course is for WIERD stuff
(often times you will come up with cool light bulb moment ideas in the dreams, here is where you can find SECRETS to various puzzles in the game)
also bits of philosophy

you start off the game in the daytime cycle
HOW YOU FEEL is basically the progression of the game

at first you cant leave the room, because you have never done so and dont feel like it now
you have to explore the room first
and once you've explored everything, you will feel INSPIRED
when you feel inspried, and you check the door, you will be able to leave "you're feeling adventureous, would you like to leave your room?"

oh yeah, obviously, the goal of the game is to LEAVE THE FRONT DOOR, meaning you have to work up the courage and the desire to do so

oh right, and your RESPONSES to people will evolve as you gain COURAGE

two main dimensions of FEELING: COURAGE and DESIRE

at first, your only options are generally to shake your head and point at things, but as you gain courage you can actually say things, and eventually you can bring up things on your own!!!


Hmmm....
ok lets get organized
things to consider
- map initializations depending on CYCLE PHASE and previous state
- the list of interactions and available responses depending on your state

okay... so the game state is this:
- COURAGE: inits to 0
- HEART: inits to 0
- PHASE: inits to day
- DAD STATE
- MOM STATE
- SISTER STATE
- GMA STATE

on phase change: update each individual characters states depending on prev states and the current phase
on map change: initialize entity table depending on character states (thats it, no need to consider phase)


basically though, we can develop each 4 characters individually
they have their state variable, and their state owns the state of any misc items in the world

okoko... the MAPS and the ENTITY TABLES are BOTH dynamic...
there are INIT functions, which load them largely from rom but dynamically compute some of them surely

ROOM_CHANGE_FUNC:
teleports you (camera implicitly scrolls) and ACTIVE REGION is changed
MAP_CHANGE_FUNC:
screen transition effect, teleports you, camera is set
map is dynamically loaded depending on the game state
entity table is dynamically loaded depending on the game state


but yes, maps are all fully scrollable??
thinkin about how they should be stored though
should it be meta tiles? yes obviously, metatiles with dynamically computed graphics

also not even NEGATIVE NANCY is named, in the game, its the character yes, but u dont have an actual name
there are no names in the game at all

end text: WHITE SCREEN BLACK TEXT
"you went outside"
"..."
"you are free"
"..."
"what are you going to do next?"











OK CHARACTER STATES:


GMA:
MISC STATES:
COOKING: nothing, or a dish
PREPARED: nothing, or a dish that has been cooked, which she will give to you on interaction (as an entity)
STATES:
STATE: normal
she spawns in the kitchen
INTERACTIONS IN THIS STATE:
- "come, let me show you where i put everything" (follow her, she rambles on and on about where everything is)
- "do you like [some dish]" (you can say yes or no, and she'll make it later in the day if you say yes)
- "taste this spinache dip, see if its just right" (you taste it) (and you can choose "needs sour cream" "needs spinach" "needs seasoning" "just right") and it goes on and on forever until its just right, but you can also go TOO FAR, your options change the BALANCE of the mixture, and different things are said depending on the balance, and if you go too far, then 'its ruined, i'll just make some more'
- "what is this?" (random items in reply)
- "come, help me haul limbs in the back yard" ("i'm not feelin that")
in your room:
she'll come bang on the door occassionally
sometimse if you dont answer she'll use a knife to get herway in, coming in holding a stake knife, and then ask for your dirty clothes : )



AAA
i want a rare occasion where gma is out back late at night (or maybe in dream phase) and you can sit with her and have a warm heartfelt conversation about life and god, and you can choose to open up and support her or shut up
AND YES, there have to be situations where you can SPEAK UP and sUPPORT THE CHARACTERS... but you have to have enough courage in order to do so

i think maybe... ? COURAGE should be displayed on the start screen? (which is just text box)

you can get different endings as well....
depending on how different scenarios went... 
at the VERY end of the game, after the white screen, you are shown what achievements you got, yes
and show a shadow of all the endings, only hilghitng the ones you unlocked
and telling you the NAME of the ending you got that round

gonnab e a sister support scenario, where you open up to her, and she vents to you, and you can support her or be silent but you have to have courage

gonna be a dad get mad at scenario, it can go different ways
you can yell at him, keep silent
maybe even get kicked out of the house...!! (which is the worst ending actually.. lol)

death in the family scenario??


endings:
MAD DAD ENDING... get kicked out of the house with ou poor outlook on life, ready to rot and die in the streets
ULTIMATE ENDING: you supported all the characters, understood them all, came to terms with yourself, defeated your anxiety, gained courage, and have a positive outlook on life
GENERIC ENDING: you simply were feeling adventurous enoguh to leave your home, unsure about the outlook you have on life, maybe you will die, maybe you will make it, who knows, you left behind your family
DEAD FAMILY: all your family members except the sister die, so you are forced to go out on your own, you are left with lingering regrets

and actually, depending on the ending you get, you get different white screen flavor text

THERE HAS TO BE SOCIOPATHIC THEMES IN HERE TO...
about ... feeling completely apathetic torwards everyonend it shows up in the dogs as well.. how you treat them
when you are apathetic you dont care, they love you but you dont care, you can kick them around, and stuff, 
but when you love them, they support you
YOU CAN CHOOSE TO LET THEM IN YOUR ROOM OR NOT....

also ... at a certain point in the game, the BRIDGE disappears, IF ... you feel more connected with your family
see, the bridge symbolizes dissociation and apathy
so when you mend that gap, at a certain point the bridge is gone

lost love and impossible crushes have to be a theme
swaying you toward total isolation

COURAGE represents your ABILITY
HEART represents your INTENTIONS
so if courage is up, you can do more, but the kinds of chouces you can make depend on heart

also gma appearing in ur room in the middle of the night asking if u want Hot Chocolate and Breakfast
also the fear of being offered food because you dont want it to effect you negatively n u dont trust ppl to prepare it properly

oh and Lilybot is at the piano,,, when u talk to her u can Compose
when u sit down at the piano, u Play what u composed

hey maybe if you press select on the start screen you can choose the starting phase :o and it changes the title palette to indicate
